---
layout: post
title: "462"
date: 2021-09-06 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I have been writing here for over ten years. Something like eight years of that has been once a week. Almost all of it I have done alone.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Like, of course all the typing was done by me. That shouldn&rsquo;t be too surprising. It is, after all, very difficult for two or more people to use one keyboard. What I mean by writing alone is, I don&rsquo;t run any of this by an editor or second set of eyes. I just type it out and post it up. Including most of the stories. This is sort of a problem.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Working with other people is always a bit of a challenge. Everyone will have competing ideas about how a thing should be done. If everyone is professional, cordial, and shares a mutual respect that doesn&rsquo;t need to be a source of conflict. I have worked together with other people to create things that are, by far, better than anything we would have done individually lots of times. I would even say that it&rsquo;s kind of fun. Bouncing ideas off each other. Building on ideas and making them better, funnier, deeper, richer. Working with other people can be a really good time.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>When I&rsquo;m writing I just haven&rsquo;t found the opportunity. Maybe it is more accurate to say that I haven&rsquo;t run into a willing collaborator.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I have recently started running a lot of my stories past what people call Beta readers. Really just some friends that are willing to be subjected to very early versions of my stories. I&rsquo;m extremely grateful for that feedback but I also thought I could benefit from searching out a wider community. A group of people that don&rsquo;t know me, have no reason to be nice to me, and could care less if I wrote or didn&rsquo;t. You know, a writers group.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>First I posted a few things on Reddit under the destructive readers group. I didn&rsquo;t feel I was getting much actual feedback there. I still jump in and give some people notes on their work because I had hoped that was what they would do for me, but yeah, you can post stuff there and not get a lot back.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I tried joining a writing group here in the city, but that was right before Covid made in person meetups an impossibility. They only have a facebook and yahoo group and I use neither of those.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I have had a lot of luck using Discord with game development groups so I started looking there. I found one in Edmonton (only a few hours away and somewhere I regularly travel) but they chased me out because I didn&rsquo;t live in Edmonton. Out of an online group. That can only meet online right now. Strange, but whatever.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I joined two other groups, but left one almost instantly when I discovered everyone else was high school age.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>So now I am testing out this third one. The people seem okay, but they are definitely much younger than me. Not that surprising with an all online group. I have offered some feedback on writing posted, but I have yet to receive any for my own. Maybe it will turn out to be helpful, maybe it won&rsquo;t. Maybe I&rsquo;ll hop out of here and head over to a different group. We&rsquo;ll see.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>What I do know is, I think I am done with doing this all alone. If I want my writing to get better, I need some other people to work with.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        