---
layout: post
title: "475"
date: 2021-12-06 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>So I did it. I wrote a little over 50000 words in one month. Here is the postmortem.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I guess I&rsquo;ll answer the two main questions that I had going in.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The first question I had was simple. Could I do it? And if I could, how hard would it be?</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>So the answer to the first was obviously, yes. I wrote around 1700 words every single day for 30 days. Some days I wrote slightly less, some days slightly more. There was one day that I wrote 3000. So the answer to the first question was, yep. I absolutely can write 50000 words in a month.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The second question is a little more difficult. Was it hard? Well, yes and no. Simply typing 2000 or even 3000 words in a day, or really in a few hours, isn&rsquo;t that hard. Making up 1700 words of new story every day is a little more difficult. The main problem was that I didn&rsquo;t have a super clear idea where the story was going sometimes, and I sort of had to make it up on the fly. Usually I would make some sort of plan for what I was going to write the next day and then try as hard as I could to follow that plan. Sometimes it went off the rails and I would have to backtrack to fix it.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The next things that I think people would want to know about taking on a challenge like this is, does it make you faster at writing? Does it make you a better writer?</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>To answer the first question, for me at least, it didn&rsquo;t make me a faster writer. It took me anywhere from two to four hours every day to finish those words. Without fail. I never got faster. While I can type relatively quickly, I don&rsquo;t think I&rsquo;m a very fast writer. I make mistakes and I backtrack, and I have trouble finding the exact words I want sometimes.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I did notice that my writing got much more intricate as I went on. I started to take a wider view while still working on the sentence to sentence beats of a scene. I started to plan setups and reveals that would be pages or chapters away. While I don&rsquo;t think that what I wrote is very good yet, it needs a lot of editing and scene changes to make the characters consistent and more fully featured. I started to work on the long arcs of the plot. I set up mysteries that I know how to pay off later (and some that I don&rsquo;t yet). So far, for as thin as it is, the story functions. It does the things it needs to do to make a reader turn the page. It will take a lot of work to finish it, but it&rsquo;s on its way.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Would I do it again? I don&rsquo;t know. Maybe. It is a good way to kick-start a book. And it shows you how much work writing a whole book might be. I suppose you could write a novella in that time, but I scoped a story that will take between one hundred thousand and one hundred twenty thousand to tell. I only really got close to the middle of the book.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think if I did it again, I would come with more planning. I had a short story and a handful of notes, but no real plan, so I had to make it up as I went. While that can work well, I wouldn&rsquo;t recommend it as a method of creating very polished writing. What I have right now points me in a direction, but there is no way I could sell it. It&rsquo;s just too messy.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>What all of this did prove to me was, if you worked full time as a writer, you could write at least a book a year by typing up around 2000 words a day. It would take a few hours, and then you would have to spend the rest of the day fixing those words to make them something someone would want to read. It would be a full time job, but not an easy one.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        