---
layout: post
title: "460"
date: 2021-08-23 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>Best Games - Gunblade NY</span></span><br><span></span><br><span><span>Some games just fill their niche perfectly. Simple, concise. No extraneous bits.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Gunblade NY is built to a spec.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>You want a shooting game. How about if you never have to stop shooting. You want an action game. Gunblade never lets up. You want a short game you can enjoy for a few moments in an arcade or bar. Gunblade is only minutes long. You want to play with a friend. The game expects that you will.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>This is a game that knows what it is, and more importantly what it isn&rsquo;t. It&rsquo;s quick, it&rsquo;s fun, it&rsquo;s ridiculous.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Let&rsquo;s go back a bit. SEGA has a pretty good track record with light gun games. Most of that is on their consoles. Just a bit prior to Gunblade NY, Sega had a huge arcade hit with Virtua Cop. Virtua Cop is what you get when you take these newfangled polygon 3D game and pair it with tried and true lightgun shooting. Gunblade is what you get if you take all the best parts of Virtua Cop and get rid of everything else. All that&rsquo;s left is high speed robot shooting action out the side of a physics defying helicopter. With a rip roaring soundtrack.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In a lot of these Best Games posts I like to look at a game that did one thing better, or earlier, or different, than all the other games. Something that blazed a trail. A game that designers can look to as a touchstone of the artform. Every once in a while it&rsquo;s worth looking at a game that just does what it does very well with no missteps. A small, simple game that never claims to be more than it is.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In that same spirit, this is a small simple post that is only here to praise Gunblade NY. If you get a chance to play it, you should. Gunblade NY is one of the best games.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        