---
layout: post
title: "459"
date: 2021-08-16 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>This weekend was the Alberta Game Jam. You know what I did. I didn&rsquo;t do the Alberta Game Jam.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I thought about it. I registered for it. I forgot about it. I noticed a message about it a few hours before it was going to start. I watched the theme reveal. I got an idea for a game I could work on. Then I didn&rsquo;t.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I don&rsquo;t really feel bad about that.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Since using Twine a few years ago for a game jam, I have thought about using it again.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Twine is a sort of framework for text based, choose your own adventure and interactive fiction. It&rsquo;s fairly easy to use and surprisingly powerful and flexible. As long as the game you are making is primarily text based.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>When I made that previous jam game, I came up with a way to use 2D arrays for maps and navigation could be handled semi procedurally. I then found out that other people had the same idea and there were instructions and frameworks for just such a system. I ended up making a sort of hybrid. Taking parts of the system I found and the system I came up with to make something that worked for the random escape game I created.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Like all jam games, there were ideas that I wanted to implement that I ran out of time for. Like most jam games, I never went back to add those features.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I thought &ldquo;here we go&rdquo;. I had the opportunity and the idea that would let me add those missing elements to that Twine framework.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>So I sat down and added those features.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I tested those features.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The features worked.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>And I was done.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I found I didn&rsquo;t really have any interest in making the game. It wouldn&rsquo;t have been great. I don&rsquo;t think I would be that happy with it. What I really wanted to do was tinker with that engine and add the stuff that I wasn&rsquo;t able to before. Once I did that, well, I was done. And that&rsquo;s just fine.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Sometimes you just want to make something. That something might not be that useful, or something that you need to share with others. Sometimes you just have to make a thing for your own damn self.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>So I did. And I liked it. And I was okay with finishing it there and moving on to some other writing that I do want to complete. Something that I do want to get into a state that I can share with others. So I changed gears and did that instead.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>All in all, not a terrible use of a weekend.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        