---
layout: post
title: "453"
date: 2021-07-05 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I&rsquo;m just going to write this one as an aside.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>A little something that isn&rsquo;t what I am really writing. What I am really writing is another short story, but I have recently found out that if you actually want to get short stories published in places where people might read them you can&rsquo;t post them on your own personal blog. Now I understand the initial reasoning behind that. A publisher doesn&rsquo;t want to pay money for a story that can be found for free on the internet. I also think that sort of thinking ignores the realities of the internet. Almost anything can be had for free if you are willing to look around for it. Text is especially susceptible to being copied and redistributed. The other reality is that people are pretty lazy. The types of magazines and web sites that might publish one of my stories are probably safe. People aren&rsquo;t hunting around for pirated sci-fi stories. They are going to the outlets that they know. The places that curate stories. They are either listening to the ad sponsored podcast versions of stories, or paying a small amount for the digital subscription, or reading off the ad sponsored web page. That a story exists on my blog, a blog that very few people read, it won&rsquo;t really factor into their bottom line. Even if it were the blog of a very popular writer, there would likely be very little impact to a publisher.</span></span><br><br><span></span><span><span>Still, they have their rules and that means that as long as I am trying to sell any stories I will have to either pull early drafts from here or just never post them to begin with. It&rsquo;s a bummer, but that&rsquo;s how it goes.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I suppose if anyone reading this wants an early version of anything I am writing you could just contact me and I will hook you up.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>And now back to writing what I was writing before this aside. It involves aliens. And mixed martial arts. Should be fun.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br></div>

		</div>
        