---
layout: post
title: "489"
date: 2022-03-14 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I&rsquo;m writing a story using the second person perspective. You know, the &ldquo;you did this&rdquo; &ldquo;you went here&rdquo; perspective. That&rsquo;s right, like the Choose Your Own Adventure books. Except this isn&rsquo;t a choose your own adventure. This is a horror story.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I don&rsquo;t write a lot of horror stories. Over the last few years, I think that I have only written two. I started writing this one and nothing worked. It wasn&rsquo;t scary or unnerving. I think I am going for unnerving, really. Unnerving is my center. That&rsquo;s the pivot point for most of my stories. Even if the story is about something relatively mundane, I will always veer toward unnerving. Something fundamentally disquieting.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I was writing this story, and none of it worked. The images were supposed to be grim and upsetting, but they just seemed camp and pseudo-scary. Like &lsquo;Spirit Halloween&rsquo; scary. Until I changed the perspective to second person.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Second person can be a gimmick. I don&rsquo;t think it works for most stories. It works for games and game books, because, well, you are the one making the choices. For most stories, it doesn&rsquo;t really land. The use of &lsquo;You&rsquo; can be jarring. I think there are very few examples of it working.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There are a few rules that will make second person work properly in fiction. First, the narrator voice must be a character in the story, and the person being narrated to can&rsquo;t be the reader. The reader knows who they are. The characters must be separate from them, and exist fully within the fiction of the story. There needs to be a little distance there.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>If you follow those rules though, second person can be very unnerving. And that works well for horror.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I don&rsquo;t know if this story will be successful, but I&rsquo;m near finishing it. I guess I will find out when it&rsquo;s all done and submitted.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        