---
layout: post
title: "481"
date: 2022-01-17 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>After I did NanoWriMo I took a bit of time off. I put the files away and didn&rsquo;t look at any of the words I wrote for a good couple of weeks.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think that&rsquo;s a pretty natural impulse. I had worked on one story every day for a month and I needed a bit of distance from it before I came back to assess where to go from there.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I&rsquo;m not super precious with my words, and I won&rsquo;t hesitate to throw away and rework large chunks of text, if I think it will make the story better. Still, sometimes I think I need some time away from a bit of writing before I can really look at it and figure out what I can do to improve it.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Not what&rsquo;s wrong. Imagining that something is &lsquo;wrong&rsquo; with a piece of writing supposes that there is some way to make it right. I don&rsquo;t think there is. I think there are ways to strengthen and improve a bit of writing. I think that you can make something better by reworking it, or rewriting it. But that isn&rsquo;t a destructive act. You aren&rsquo;t taking out what is broken and replacing it with something you fixed. You are refining a sketch.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Right now I have a bit over 50000 words of sketch. Some of the lines are very clear and I can just leave them as they are. Others wander all over the page and don&rsquo;t really connect up to anything. The forms are undefined and the contrast between forms isn&rsquo;t as strong as it needs to be.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I won&rsquo;t use any color metaphors, since I&rsquo;m no good at color in painting either.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In drawing terms, right now I have a line of action and some ill defined shapes. I have built up the faith in myself that if I were at this stage of a drawing, I could probably finish it. I don&rsquo;t really have that with writing yet. I think I will get the story to where it needs to be, but I needed to take a few weeks away to regroup and refocus.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Now that I am back, looking at it again, I think the base sketch might be alright. I&rsquo;ll keep working on it.&nbsp; </span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        