---
layout: post
title: "492"
date: 2022-04-04 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I started a story about two years ago. Best I can figure, anyway. The first date on the original document is April 11, 2020. I didn&rsquo;t really know what the story was going to be about when I started it. That&rsquo;s how it usually goes. I start with one image or idea and sort of figure it out from there. By the time I have a few pages typed up, I start to understand who the characters are and what they want. After that, I gradually walk my way to an ending.</span></span><br><span></span><span>That story, All Legacy Hardware, is now published in the sci-fi and fantasy magazine, <a href="https://www.cossmass.com/" target="_blank">Cossmass Infinities - issue 8</a>.</span><br><span></span><span><span>Before it landed there, that story was all manner of things. Eventually it was whittled down and refined into what it is now. It had no title, and then a placeholder title, and then a different placeholder title for a bit. It was always about an athlete getting a spine replacement, but as soon as I added the sister character, the story became about two sisters. The order of the events changed. It was much longer, then only a little longer, then a tiny bit shorter, and finally the length that it is. Which, I will admit, might be slightly too long. Character names changed, events were rearranged. I did research and got the opinions of a lot of different folks. Some of them, former and current, professional writers, scientists, and athletes. I changed the story based on a lot of different feedback. Hopefully that made it better.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Before it found its home at Cossmass Infinities, I sent it out to a few other places. They all rejected it. I used that time to go back over the story and punch it up in places where it was lacking. I even got some useful feedback from a couple of them, so that was nice. I still think there are some spots that I would like to change, where it isn&rsquo;t as good as it could be. But I know that when I started the story two years ago, that was the best I could do. Maybe I could write it better now, maybe not, but at the time, I tried to write the best story I could.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In any case, All Legacy Hardware, is my first professional sale, and my first published story.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In the two years between then and now, I have started, and finished, several more stories. Some of them, I have submitted to professional outlets for publishing. Most of them will probably get rejected, at least a few times. I think my writing has gotten better since I started that story, slightly more confident, a little more dexterous.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>These posts here, these are stream of conscious things. They aren&rsquo;t trying to be efficient or punchy. They will probably continue to be just as meandering and clunky as ever. But the stuff I take my time with and put some real work into, there are a few more of those floating around out there just waiting for a place to land. Hopefully one of them will eventually.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>If they do, I will be sure to mention it here.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br></div>

		</div>
        