---
layout: post
title: "494"
date: 2022-04-18 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>So, I have false teeth. I spent most of my life playing a lot of hockey, and I have found that pretty much everyone assumes it&rsquo;s due to that. Fair enough. If the sport is associated with anything, it might be missing teeth. Nothing so gruesome happened. Honestly, in all the games I have played, I think I have only been hit in the mouth with sticks a couple of times, and pucks never. Well, maybe only once. Or twice. Who keeps track of these things. Nope, it&rsquo;s the mundane genetic reason. I have hypodontia.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Hypodontia, if you are not familiar, is naturally missing teeth. I am specifically missing the lateral incisors. It&rsquo;s so common that I have noticed it in a lot of other people. I have also noticed that most of them don&rsquo;t like other people pointing it out. Oh well.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The long and short of it is that I have had false teeth since I was about fifteen. I try to take very good care of them, so I am only on my third set. This last set, they didn&rsquo;t last as well as others. Yep. I broke my teeth.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Here&rsquo;s the other thing about me. I&rsquo;m that weirdo who will fix his own teeth. I&rsquo;m also that weirdo that has acquired all the skills necessary to fix his own teeth. Life casting with alginate and plaster. Done that. 3D modelling and printing to make my own dental impression tray. Can do. Working with acrylics and acrylic solvents. Literal years of experience. Handy with a dremel. Sure.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I printed my own dental tray, got some alginate and plaster from one of those hobby hand impression kits from the dollar store (trust me, it&rsquo;s exactly the same stuff), and got some acrylic powder and solvent from denture repair kits (also, trust me, exactly the same stuff). I made a positive cast of my upper teeth and mouth and used that to align my denture and teeth.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The first time I broke these teeth, I was able to put them back together, but I hadn&rsquo;t mastered getting the bite right.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The second time they broke, I got them fitted really well, but the connections between the teeth and the plate were too thin. There was no way they were strong enough to last.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>This time, I put them all back together, but the original plate has been taken apart and put back together too many times. I know what happens to acrylic when you repeatedly apply solvents to it. I don&rsquo;t have a lot of confidence in it anymore. Also, I ran out of acrylic powder.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Even though I am exactly that weirdo who will fix his own teeth, it&rsquo;s now time to call in the experts.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I&rsquo;ll go in and get a new set of teeth made. Hopefully they last for another ten years or so. If they don&rsquo;t, I suppose I could always fix them again.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        