---
layout: post
title: "511"
date: 2022-08-15 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I was going to post up a painting today. That was the plan.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I try to sketch or paint a bit every week. You know, just to keep limber or whatever.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I had a stint there where I was only really drawing when it was directly related to something I was working on. A concept sketch or a color study. Something quick and dirty that I would eventually turn into a 3D model or a vector illustration. One of the steps along the way, with no plan to create a final image.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The thing with doing anything repeatedly, you get a bit better at it. The drawings or paintings that I scratched out were good enough for my own exploration, but not really representative of the final model or scene. I did a bunch of drawings, got a bit better, and now I&rsquo;m not really satisfied with what I paint.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There is a plateau that every artist hits. I know that I have hit it multiple times over the years. You&rsquo;re good enough that you can sort of make what you imagine in your head, but you aren&rsquo;t good enough to meet your own standards. Most artists just sort of learn to live with it. Once you hit a certain level of skill, you will never be satisfied with the quality of your work. So maybe it&rsquo;s not fair to call it a plateau. I don&rsquo;t think that my skill at drawing or painting is not improving, I think that I will always be reaching for a bit more than I am currently able to do.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>So, long story short, I painted some stuff, I was going to post it, but I don&rsquo;t like it. I&rsquo;ll work on it some more and see if I like it next week. Maybe like is a strong word. See if I find it acceptable next week.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        