---
layout: post
title: "487"
date: 2022-02-28 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I have been writing a story, in bits and pieces, for the last two weeks or so. Earlier this week, I had started working on this post. I was going to write about how I took a very meandering route. How I had started the story from one characters perspective, and then changed it to be from another, and then changed it again to be from the perspective of an omniscient narrator, and how none of that was working. How I eventually changed it to a less conventional, but much more appropriate perspective.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>None of that seems to matter very much at the moment.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There are more important things going on in the world.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The problem is, I don&rsquo;t know how to write about them. I don&rsquo;t know what words to use. I don&rsquo;t know what order to put them in. I don&rsquo;t know how to frame thoughtless tragedies and horrific, evil acts.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I know how to write stories. I know how to rework them so that they function. I know how to voice identifiable characters. At least, I think I do.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I don&rsquo;t know how to write about any of this. I don&rsquo;t know how to form my rage and despair into words that would be helpful to anyone.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I know how to write stories. I know how to write about games. Or movies. Or music. Or art. Or 3D animation software.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>They are simple, silly, trivial things.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Maybe reading some of those things will bring someone some small amount of joy.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I believe I will keep writing about those things.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I don&rsquo;t know how to write about what&rsquo;s going on. That&rsquo;s no reason to stop writing.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        