---
layout: post
title: "508"
date: 2022-07-25 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I wrote a story a few years ago that I keep wanting to go back to. It was a short little thing. Maybe 1500 words or so. It felt like a lot at the time. Now, I can&rsquo;t sum up a single thought in less than 500.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I liked that story, but there was a major problem with it. It wasn&rsquo;t actually a story. It had a start and middle, maybe, but that was about it. There was no end. There was no conclusion, nor was there really any plot. It was like a scene from a larger story that I never wrote. A character study with nothing for the character to actually do, or feel, be about. Just a sort of story-stub. Something that could be a story, if I was a better writer.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I don&rsquo;t know if I am a better writer now, but I am, at least, a slightly more confident one.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>As these things usually go, I thought of a way to actually write the story I had been attempting back then while I was writing a different story. The end result of working on story ideas, is always coming up with story ideas. They just might not always be for the story you are working on right then.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I decided to have a look at the old story and see if I could just punch it up a little. You know, give it a bit of a rework without actually rewriting everything. I&rsquo;m thinking you can guess how well that went.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>This will be a better direction and I might have a usable, maybe even sellable, story at the end of it, but it needs some major work to rebuild. Or, if this is a story-stub, a blueprint, then maybe this isn&rsquo;t so much of a rebuild, but an actual build.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I could keep writing this vague and meandering thought salad, never saying exactly what I am working on or what the story used to be, or I can just go and write it.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think I will do the second one.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        