---
layout: post
title: "479"
date: 2022-01-03 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I&rsquo;m almost done editing up one story, and I have another that is about fifty percent done. I don&rsquo;t know if they will find homes anywhere, but I think at least one of them is pretty &lsquo;marketable&rsquo;. It&rsquo;s short, concise, but presents a sense of place and time that is the sort of thing people look for in short stories. At least it&rsquo;s the sort of thing that I look for, and last I checked, I was people.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>That was all last year stuff. My goal for this year is one short story a month and finish the 70k or so words left in the book I&rsquo;m writing. I&rsquo;m much too far into it to stop now.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think one short story a month is a pretty good pace for me. If I was writing all the time, I think I would go faster, but that seems like a totally workable pace.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I definitely have no lack of ideas. I have about twenty short story ideas in a document here, and that&rsquo;s only the ones I already committed to digital paper. I probably have a notion for one or two new ones every week. Now, most of them suck, but there are a lot of ideas.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I have mostly focused on sci-fi stories and speculative fiction stories, because that is the sort of thing I like. I think I might branch out a bit though. I also like some other genre fiction. Some horror or fantasy. Mostly, I will continue my trend of writing characters that are, by a lot of people&rsquo;s interpretation, bland. They will be mostly kind or nice, and if they are &lsquo;the bad guy&rsquo; they will have to have a good and valid (to themselves) reason for it. There will be no moustache twirlers, dark lords, or Darth Sidious&rsquo;s on my watch. I find those characters dull beyond reckoning. They are not the opposite of a moral protagonist. The opposite would be someone who chooses a malicious path because they can somehow justify the ends. That might be bland or not larger than life, but I will like them. Since I&rsquo;m the one writing them, that&rsquo;s what they will be.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        