---
layout: post
title: "541"
date: 2023-03-13 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I went back and counted. The graphics tablet I use, nearly daily, is the fifth I&rsquo;ve owned and the seventh I&rsquo;ve used. If I don&rsquo;t count the iPad. Actually, come to think of it, I think I have to count the iPad now. I can&rsquo;t use it with Blender or Krita or the desktop version of Affinity Designer, at least not easily, and all three of those are go to apps for me, but I do use the iPad to draw and paint pretty regularly. So, eight. The number of graphics tablets I have used is eight. That seems like a lot.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I am thinking about this now, because several times a year, every year, I consider getting a new graphics tablet. This is just part of the natural cycle of things.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The one I currently use is a Huion HS610. It&rsquo;s perfectly capable and I like it quite a bit. Other than occasionally brushing the scroll wheel with my hand, I don&rsquo;t think I have any issues with it. The only reason I have for thinking about a new tablet, is that I saw there were some screen based pen displays on sale. I don&rsquo;t really need one, but that never stopped anyone from wanting a thing.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Very recently, I saw a pixel artist (who apparently used a mouse?) asking the game dev community whether a graphics tablet is worth it. As someone who has owned six of the things (I think we decided on six) I had to say, emphatically, yes.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Not only are graphics tablets amazing tools for artists at any stage of their career or development, having one has almost certainly saved me from worse RSI than I currently have. I switch constantly, from tablet, to trackball, to mouse. The changing hand positions and movement ranges keep my carpal tunnels from getting too distressed.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The other reason I can recommend a graphics tablet is pretty simple. They are so much cheaper now than they have ever been. A new Huion tablet can be picked up for the same price as a mid range mouse. My second Wacom Intuos cost something like $200 and it was far less capable than anything you can buy today.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Even if you only think you will use it occasionally, I think a graphics tablet is a purchase you likely won&rsquo;t regret.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think that&rsquo;s all I have to say this week. I just think graphics tablets are nifty keen and worth getting. I think I&rsquo;ll go back to drooling over some glossy, 4k, pen displays, and convincing myself that I don&rsquo;t really need one.</span></span><br><span></span></div>

		</div>
        