---
layout: post
title: "534"
date: 2023-01-23 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>Okay. Three weeks. Three stories under 1000 words.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>While I don&rsquo;t think that it&rsquo;s getting any easier to write these things, I think, at least the last one, is a bit better than the others.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Just like anything, if you practice a little, you get more comfortable with it.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Gauging the pace of these sub 1000 word stories is tricky, but I think that&rsquo;s the part I am getting better at. I like to open stories rather slowly. Give the reader lots of time to acclimatize and get into whatever it is I am writing. That&rsquo;s not really a great way to write a story that only takes a few minutes to read. I still had to trim a little to get under the word count, but not over 200 words like the first week.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>So, what do I hope to learn by writing these? In such a tight word count, I can&rsquo;t be flowery or wander too far. I have to make sure my dialog gets to the point, or if I&rsquo;m doing my job right, several points. I&rsquo;m learning to echo concepts, without, I hope, making the text repetitive. I&rsquo;m learning that I can go from concept to finished story in a handful of hours, and I can do it repeatably. Reliably.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think that all of these stories will require several passes and probably more than a handful of additional words before they are ready to send out, but they are done. They are self-contained, functional stories.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think that&rsquo;s all I really aspire to write.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        