---
layout: post
title: "548"
date: 2023-05-01 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>My 2D game project is coming along. Most of my time with it has just been learning the ins and outs of Godot 4.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Like I said before, I have only really done a very small amount of dabbling with Godot, and that was quite a while ago. It seems like a very competent engine, and everything that I have wanted to do with it, I have been able to get working. After a while.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The biggest issue I&rsquo;m having is that most of the tutorials and learning material are made in their built-in language, GDScript. GDScript is a python-like programming language that is, by all reports, made to be very easy to use.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I hate it.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I&rsquo;m sure I could learn to use it. I&rsquo;m sure I would even like using it after a while, but when I want to just make a thing that is in my head, I can&rsquo;t stand programming in it.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Luckily, the developers of Godot have added C# support. Coming from years of messing with Unity, I am so much more comfortable with C#. That means that the code I write is at least readable by me, and the things I try I can usually get to work.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The downside of using C#, is again, all the learning material is written in GDScript. I&rsquo;m finding that I spend a lot of my &lsquo;development&rsquo; time translating from GDScript examples to C#. I could just follow the examples, but then when I go to change something or extend the example script, something I will always have to do, I have trouble figuring it out. It&rsquo;s a language barrier issue. So, I&rsquo;m finding it&rsquo;s actually easier to translate to C# and go from there.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>On one hand, that does make my work a lot slower. On the other hand, future me will understand what I did and will be able to make changes. I&rsquo;m doing future me a favour here. I hope he&rsquo;s thankful for it.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        