---
layout: post
title: "552"
date: 2023-05-29 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I haven&rsquo;t done a writing update in a while. So, what&rsquo;s the state of my writing at the moment? Not good. Or fine. Maybe it&rsquo;s actually good. I don&rsquo;t know.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>A while ago I set a goal of creating one new first draft of a short story every month. Keeping that schedule has been pretty easy. What hasn&rsquo;t been as easy, is finishing a final draft that I can send out, that hasn&rsquo;t gone as well.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I have two stories out for consideration as I write this (might be three when you read it) but they have been out for quite a while. One of them has really done the rounds. It&rsquo;s been held for repeat reads and comments multiple times but ultimately, in every case so far, it hasn&rsquo;t been accepted.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>They places they are waiting at right now have had them for quite a while. Like several months. That&rsquo;s sort of the way it goes sometimes, but still, it&rsquo;s been long enough that I occasionally forget what story has gone where.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Still no word on when my second published story will see print, but that too will just have to wait.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In the meantime, I keep working on these stories that I wrote first drafts of. I have four of them up on blocks, and I dig around under their hoods every few days. One is pretty close to ready. Another needs a bit more work, but it&rsquo;s not terribly far off. The other two are in states of disarray. I have half a dozen more that I haven&rsquo;t even taken a second look at, but they will all need work.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>At some point I will probably have several stories submitted to outlets at once, but not yet.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>It would be easy to see not having a bunch of stories ready as some sort of failure, but I keep working on them so that&rsquo;s better than abandoning them.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I know that I&rsquo;m not a particularly fast or prolific writer, I just hope that when I get a story out there for people to read that they enjoy it. I&rsquo;ll take making enjoyable stories over making a lot of stories anytime.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        