---
layout: post
title: "546"
date: 2023-04-17 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I like to ride my bike. If I&rsquo;m going somewhere fairly nearby, I will probably take my bike. If I&rsquo;m going somewhere further, but plan to stay a while, I will probably take my bike. If I&rsquo;m going to be drinking, I will absolutely take my bike.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>For quite a while, if I was headed downtown, I would bike to the train and ride it the rest of the way. More and more often, I have been riding the entire 10 to 20km for events. If the weather is nice and the paths are mostly clear, it&rsquo;s great. If there is snow on the path, but it&rsquo;s packed down, I just take the fat tire bike, and it&rsquo;s great. If it&rsquo;s really cold, I dress warmer.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I&rsquo;m sure this sounds bonkers to a lot of people, but think of it this way. I never need to look for or pay for parking. I can always choose to have another beer before I leave a place (I never do, but I could). My bike never runs out of fuel and I never have to fill it up. My largest ongoing expense is extra train tickets when I don&rsquo;t want to ride.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Then there is the maintenance. Most bike parts last for years or even decades. My main bike frame is about 20 years old. I have replaced a lot of the main components in that time, but not all of them. The real kicker is that when those parts did need replacing, I did it myself. If you look around a bit you can get most of the parts cheaper than at a bike shop too. I think there are two special purpose tools that you need to fix a bicycle. A chain tool, and a crank puller. A bike stand is nice, but not required. Other than that, it&rsquo;s all wrenches and screwdrivers.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I know to some people I&rsquo;m &lsquo;that guy who rides his bike everywhere&rsquo; but it&rsquo;s just so much easier than driving sometimes. More relaxed. Safer. Even in the cold. You put on a snow helmet, goggles, and mask, and you can ride through a lot of weather.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Except rain. I hate riding in the rain.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>That&rsquo;s all. I did some seasonal tune-ups on my bike and it made me think about how much I like biking. Nothing more to it. Go ride a bike. They&rsquo;re good.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        