---
layout: post
title: "579"
date: 2023-12-11 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I&rsquo;ve been working on a 2D game project for a little while now. You might say I have been working on this project since the early 90s.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I have always been fascinated by video games. Since the time I was probably three and played a Space Wars arcade machine with my mom in the alcove between a bar and a restaurant, I have been amazed by them. That I can press a button or move a stick or wiggle a mouse or move my hands around in space with a screen strapped to my face, and something deep inside a computer will respond to that input, is pure magic.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>It&rsquo;s only been very recently that I have been able to make any video games of my own. Nothing about making games has made them any less magical to me. Difficult work, but not less magical. I have modelled, rigged, and animated a character. I chose and painted the colors of that character. I wrote the code that makes that character move around based on inputs that I specified, and it still seems magical.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I do program a little, and I know enough of the internals and technicalities of how games work that I can muddle through, but, as you may have guessed, my main area of interest is graphics. I&rsquo;m a 3D artist, with a helping of traditional 2D and illustration on the side, then season all that with some animation. I like to analyze art, partly for the aesthetic, but mostly for the technical processes that it takes to create that art. I find the how more interesting than the why. And I&rsquo;m especially interested in when the how influences the why. I&rsquo;m talking about constraints.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The 2D game I am working on has the benefits of a ridiculous amount of graphics and cpu processing power. I am using a 3D engine that is capable of real time lighting and shadowing. One that can change every pixel on a 4K display in a few milliseconds. One that can process millions of polygons into finished images faster than the human eye can follow. And I am trying to make all of that look like an arcade machine several decades old.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>It&rsquo;s working.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think understanding the constraints, the how, of why older arcade art looked the way it looked, is informing how I aim the vast armada of graphics processing I have available at the problem of achieving that aesthetic. It&rsquo;s not just a matter of using those same tools or techniques, it&rsquo;s a matter of emulating how pixels in those games got drawn to the screen. The hows can determine the whys.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There are a lot of pixel art games out there that choose pixel art as an aesthetic, and that&rsquo;s fine. I enjoy looking at an awful lot of them. But they are using that aesthetic in a very loose way. In a way that is determined more by choice than by constraint. I&rsquo;m attempting to work in the other direction. I am using new tools and then placing a constraint on how I use them and letting the constraint determine how the final art will look.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>That might be a semantic difference, but it&rsquo;s my semantic difference.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I&rsquo;m making a new game that looks like an old game, but sort of plays like a new game. And every time I press a button or push a stick, it feels like magic.</span></span><br><span></span></div>

		</div>
        