---
layout: post
title: "558"
date: 2023-07-17 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I have been sort of off and on with the game project recently. Between finishing up some polish work on Neon Noodles and getting a couple more stories ready to submit, I haven&rsquo;t done much work on the coding and mechanics side of my 2D game.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>That isn&rsquo;t to say that nothing has moved forward. It most certainly has, but that movement is mostly in the process and visuals department.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I slightly revised my rendering process so that it is both faster and more customizable. I developed the technique of rendering crisp, low resolution, sprites based on 3D models in blender. It works well, but I built it to work on one particular set of animations at a particular scale. Part of my revising has been to make it a more general process. Something that can work for a bunch of different sprites at different scales.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>As far as the style goes, the sprites don&rsquo;t exactly look like 3D models rendered in Blender. They don&rsquo;t look quite hand drawn, either. So some more work had to be done.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The process works, but to get the visuals where I want them, I&rsquo;m going to have to work on my animation. For me, this is great news.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I&rsquo;m an animator that rarely gets to do much animation. I spent a bunch of time training my eyes, brain, and hands to detect and recreate motion with life and feeling. I have done a lot of design, modelling, and illustration work over the last few decades, but only a tiny amount of animation. And even less character animation. Now, finding that animation is probably what I need to punch up my visuals is both exciting and terrifying.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>What if I don&rsquo;t remember how. What if I can&rsquo;t animate something that matches my ambition. I guess I&rsquo;m gonna find out.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        