---
layout: post
title: "533"
date: 2023-01-16 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>Best </span><span>Games</span><span> Albums - Geddon Dangerous by Doublegeddon&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br><span><span>Normally this is the place for games, best games even. I&rsquo;m just going to drop a link here. If you are going to read this, you should at least have a listen to one of the best albums of last year.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><a href="https://youtu.be/h-iUtkleVt8"><span style="color:rgb(17, 85, 204); font-weight:400">https://youtu.be/h-iUtkleVt8</span></a><span>&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br><span><span>While you could just listen to this music and enjoy the blend of power metal and new wave synths, I don&rsquo;t know if you would get the whole experience.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There are a lot of concept albums, but there are fewer concept bands, and only a tiny handful that make good music. Only really Ghost and Gorillaz come to mind.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>To sum up, Doublegeddon is, at least by their descriptions, two 5000 year old Sumerian demigods who have re-emerged from the 7th dimension to play metal music. One lives on the moon and one lives in Antarctica. Since one hates heat and the other hates oxygen, it works out.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I&rsquo;m a sucker for satirical lore. Doublegeddon has it in spades.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>If you would like another link, here is an interview they did with a metal magazine.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><a href="https://www.filthydogsofmetal.com/interviews/interview-with-doublegeddon"><span style="color:rgb(17, 85, 204); font-weight:400">https://www.filthydogsofmetal.com/interviews/interview-with-doublegeddon</span></a></span><br><span></span><span><span>All of their songs are similarly silly, but with a narrative consistency that speaks to some real writing talent. The lyrics of Revenge of the Vampire sounds like a bunch of metal tropes laid end to end, but it&rsquo;s not just nonsense. The song tells a story. It&rsquo;s a goofy story, but it&rsquo;s fun, and good, and most important, well told.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>None of these songs are just tossed out there. The musical skill is obvious, but there is some real songwriting skill on display as well. Writing almost forty minutes of good music in service of a joke is worthy of applause.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Jokes aside, Geddon Dangerous is just a really listenable album from end to end. I have put it on several times this year, and I will probably listen to is several more.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I look forward to whatever they do next.</span></span><br><span></span><br></div>

		</div>
        