---
layout: post
title: "532"
date: 2023-01-09 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I just tried writing my first flash fiction. Flash is a story that is typically under 1000 words, but I have read that some people consider anything under 2500 words flash fiction. A while ago I tried writing a drabble, that&rsquo;s a story exactly 100 words in length. Here&rsquo;s something that might seem counterintuitive. Writing short is very hard.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The story I wrote is less than 750 words, but I made sure that it had as many parts of a story as I could cram in there. There are defined characters, a goal, stakes, and a twist ending that seems obvious in retrospect. You know, story stuff.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Packing any of that into 750 words is really tricky. This post is more than 400 words and I am only telling you about the story. I write outlines longer than 750 words.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Flash fiction seems to be a popular format. Easily devoured by readers during a break or on their phone, but still long enough to deliver a compelling tale. I see a lot of other writers selling them. I don&rsquo;t know if I&rsquo;m going to be among them. It&rsquo;s just really hard. I function better with a bit of room to breath. I often find getting under 5000 words to be difficult.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The obvious question would be, if it&rsquo;s hard and I like writing longer stories, why try writing a flash story. The obvious, and correct answer, would be why not. You don&rsquo;t learn anything by not trying.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I think I will try a few more in the coming weeks. I will probably find that I need to expand these stories quite a lot before I feel happy with them. On the upside, it seems to only take a day or two to write a 750 word story. That&rsquo;s a far cry from the weeks or months that I spend on my more than 5000 word stories. To be perfectly clear though, it might be a small word count and a short time, but it does feel much more difficult than writing a longer story.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Unfortunately, like always, I won&rsquo;t be posting them here, unless I really can&rsquo;t see any way to sell them. I would like to. I would rather just post up anything that I write, but that doesn&rsquo;t seem to be the way the publishing world works.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Until it does, I suppose you will just have to be satisfied with these vague descriptions of what I am writing.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Hopefully, in the near future, I can let you know about actual published stories I may or may not have coming out.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        