---
layout: post
title: "537"
date: 2023-02-13 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>A few times on here, I have taken a little time to point out some graphics tools I like. Recently, it&rsquo;s just been a bunch of different ways to use Blender. I started using Blender for some stuff that I don&rsquo;t think it was really intended for, but it doesn&rsquo;t seem to care. Just chews right through those graphics.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>This time, it&rsquo;s not Blender. This time I&rsquo;m going to write something about Pixel Composer&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>( </span><a href="https://makham.itch.io/pixel-composer"><span style="color:rgb(17, 85, 204); font-weight:400">https://makham.itch.io/pixel-composer</span></a><span> )</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There are about a million pixel art tools. Aseprite( </span><a href="https://www.aseprite.org/"><span style="color:rgb(17, 85, 204); font-weight:400">https://www.aseprite.org/</span></a><span> ) is probably the current darling, and it&rsquo;s easy to see why. It does a lot. You can paint, edit, and animate with really intuitive tools. On the other hand, Aseprite is more a refinement of the sort of tools we have been using for computer graphics for decades now than it is something new or revolutionary. Most of the time, that&rsquo;s what people want. A tool that is dialed in for their particular task.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Pixel Composer isn&rsquo;t that. It&rsquo;s a different sort of animal. Pixel Composer is more like programming pixel art pipelines than a traditional art tool. You string together a network of processes with whatever your input art is at one end, and some animated, distorted, or created pixel art comes out the other end. It has a lot more in common with procedural video compositing systems than it does with something like photoshop.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>It doesn&rsquo;t seem to be the best tool for every task, but it does make some workflows possible that would be very difficult without it. I suppose you could wrangle Blender into doing that sort of thing for you, but, try as I might, Blender can&rsquo;t be the tool for every job.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        