---
layout: post
title: "569"
date: 2023-10-02 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span>I&rsquo;m fighting a battle against pixels and I&rsquo;m losing.</span><br><span></span><span>Maybe I&rsquo;m winning.</span><br><span></span><span>It&rsquo;s hard to tell.</span><br><span></span><span>My pixel art game project is sort of stuck, but the wheels are still spinning.</span><br><span></span><span>This is the problem with working on something where you are going for an extremely specific look. You can get right up to the edge of that. You can have the look almost perfect, but if it&rsquo;s not perfect it&rsquo;s difficult to move forward.</span><br><span></span><span>The pixel look I am going for is like 95% right now, and I think I probably need it around 97% or 98% before I can really let loose on the artwork. It doesn&rsquo;t seem that much does it, that 2 or 3 percent. It&rsquo;s almost nothing.</span><br><span></span><span>I have done some work on the collision interactions and the animation pipeline. All of that is going fine. It&rsquo;s drawing the pixels to the screen that need a tiny boost.</span><br><span></span><span>I have a very promising filtering shader on the go. I have a camera adjustment script that keeps things from looking twitchy. Maybe, just maybe, one of those will be the solution to my problem.</span><br><span></span><span>I literally have the shader open in another window while I type this and I keep jumping over there to make changes.</span><br><span></span><span>I trust that I will be able to shove this project that extra 2 or 3 percent, but to do that I will need to get back to it. So I guess I will.</span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;<br></div>

		</div>
        