---
layout: post
title: "584"
date: 2024-01-15 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>Every once in a while, I come across a game that I just don&rsquo;t get. I can&rsquo;t understand why other people enjoy it. This is very much a &lsquo;not for me&rsquo; thing. I mean, go enjoy whatever games you like, I&rsquo;m not going to tell you no, or tell you that you are wrong for liking it.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Almost always, I come across these games because someone recommended it to me. Or someone wrote an article about it. Or they talked glowingly about it on a podcast or YouTube video. Because they like it. They enjoyed it. And then I try it, and I don&rsquo;t.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The common public reaction seems to be to tell everyone who likes that thing, that they are wrong for liking it. I don&rsquo;t and can&rsquo;t subscribe to that. I know that there are things that I like that other people won&rsquo;t. Usually I can try to articulate why it is that I like that thing, but I don&rsquo;t actually expect my opinion to sway anyone.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There are legions of games, and I won&rsquo;t attempt to name them here, that I don&rsquo;t enjoy, but I can imagine how someone else might. There is a much shorter list of games that I have a lot of trouble understanding who they are for. And yet, these games still have their proponents.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I recently played a game, that I won&rsquo;t name here, that came highly recommended.&nbsp; There are even some people out there calling it potentially their game of the year.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I&rsquo;m baffled. I played it. I think I explored it fully. I think I played enough to see what other people see in it&hellip; and I&rsquo;m baffled. I hated almost every bit of playing it.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>No, the kids are not wrong. This is just something that is very much not for me. And that&rsquo;s okay.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I truly hope that the person for whom this is their game of the year, enjoyed every second of their time with it. I will be playing something else. There are so very many games to choose from.</span></span><br><span></span></div>

		</div>
        