---
layout: post
title: "586"
date: 2024-01-29 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span>Quite a few months ago, I bought the full Affinity suite of products. Before you ask, of course they were on sale.&nbsp;</span><br><span></span><span>I have used Affinity Designer for a few years now, but up until recently, I haven&rsquo;t had much reason to use Affinity Photo. I use Krita for most of my painting and image editing, and I still like it, but recently I have been working on my IPad more and more often. Drawing and painting directly on the screen has its advantages. Since Serif offered a single licence for Windows, Mac, and IOS, doing some image editing and painting in Affinity Photo was sort of a no-brainer.&nbsp;</span><br><span></span><span>It&rsquo;s fantastic.</span><br><span></span><span>So I was a Photoshop and Illustrator guy. I used them both for almost twenty years. Professionally. I can honestly say that there are a lot of reasons that I prefer the Affinity suite. And no, it&rsquo;s not just the price.&nbsp;</span><br><span></span><span>Having pretty much the full toolset on the iPad is great. That I can use the same file on IPad and desktop is phenomenal. And, for the most part, the non-destructive tools are at least on par with Adobe&rsquo;s, if not better. Compound masks are a must have for me now.</span><br><span></span><span>I think they may have a little way to go with their brush engine, but I have been able to paint most of what I want to with very few issues or problems.</span><br><span></span><span>The vector tools are solid, and if I ever find them lacking it&rsquo;s pretty easy to hop over to Designer and build out a mask or text.</span><br><span></span><span>If Photo has some decent vector tools, then it shouldn&rsquo;t be surprising that Designer has some decent raster tools. Pixel paint brushes and patterns that an Illustrator artist would kill for.</span><br><span></span><span>I used to promote Affinity Designer, because I used it nearly every day, but now, after using both Designer and Photo extensively, I can easily say it might be worth it for you to switch from Adobe products.</span><br><span></span><span>Until something much better comes along, I will happily continue paying the very low upgrade price for the Affinity suite of products.</span><br><span></span></div>

		</div>
        